mountainduck/connect/index.md, before:

Connect mode
===

:::{toctree}
:hidden:
:titlesonly:
sync
online
:::

When connecting to a server, you can choose between *[Online](online.md)* and *[Smart Synchronization](sync.md)* connect
mode.

::::{tabs}
:::{tab} Online

In _Online_ connect mode, changes to a file are immediately uploaded and in sync when an application has finished saving a file.

:::
:::{tab} Smart Synchronization

In _Smart Synchronization_ connect mode, files are copied to a local cache for faster access prior synchronization with the server in the background.

:::
::::

## Feature Comparison

|                                          | **Online**                                                            | **Smart Synchronization**                                                     |
|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Offline Access**                       | –                                                                     | Save files in cache on disk for access with no server connectivity            |
| **Index Files**                          | –                                                                     | Index folder contents in cache on disk for access with no server connectivity |
| **Buffer file contents**                 | ︎Temporarily save opened files for faster access later                | Temporarily save opened files to copy to cache on disk                        |
| **Synchronization**                      | Changes are immediately uploaded                                      | Synchronize changes in the background                                         |
| **Transfer Progress**                    | Upload shown in progress window in _Finder.app_ or _Windows Explorer_ | Uploads shown in the status bar (macOS) or taskbar (Windows)                  |
| **[Recent Files](sync.md#recent-files)** | –                                                                     | Available in the status bar (macOS) or taskbar (Windows)                      |
| **[Lock Files](../locking.md)**          | ✔︎                                                                    | ✔                                                                             |
| **[Share Files](../share.md)**           | ✔                                                                     | ✔                                                                             |

## Quota Support

Mountain Duck displays the overall quota present on the server as available disk space on the mounted volume.

| Protocol                 | Support |
|--------------------------| :---: |
| [Local Disk](../../protocols/index.md#local-disk)  | ✅ |
| [SFTP](../../protocols/sftp/index.md#free-space-calculation-is-incorrect)  | ✅ |
| [FTP](../../protocols/ftp.md)                      | ❌ |
| [WebDAV](../../protocols/webdav/index.md)			 | ✅ |
| [Google Drive](../../protocols/googledrive.md)     | ✅ |
| [Google Cloud Storage](../../protocols/googlecloudstorage.md)  | ❌ |
| [Microsoft OneDrive](../../protocols/onedrive.md#quota)  | ✅ |
| [Microsoft Sharepoint](../../protocols/sharepoint.md#quota)  | ✅ |
| [Files.com](../../protocols/files.com.md)          | ❌ |
| [DRACOON](../../protocols/dracoon.md)              | ✅ |
| [Backblaze B2](../../protocols/b2.md)              | ❌ |
| [Box.com](../../protocols/box.md)                  | ❌ |
| [Dropbox](../../protocols/dropbox.md)              | ✅ |
| [Nextcloud](../../protocols/webdav/nextcloud.md)   | ✅ |
| [ownCloud](../../protocols/webdav/nextcloud.md)    | ✅ |
| [S3](../../protocols/s3/index.md)                  | ❌ |
| [SMB](../../protocols/smb.md)                      | ✅ |
| [Windows Azure ](../../protocols/azure.md)         | ❌ |
| [OpenStack Object Storage](../../protocols/openstack/index.md)  | ✅ |

:::{admonition} Limited Support
:class: attention

- **[Microsoft OneDrive](../../protocols/onedrive.md#quota)**: Quota is only supported when setting the *Path* in the bookmark configuration to a folder different from `/`.
- **[Microsoft SharePoint](../../protocols/sharepoint.md#quota)**: Quota is only supported when setting the *Path* in the bookmark configuration to a *Drives* folder in a SharePoint site folder.
:::

Some protocols do not report the available quota. Finder and Windows Explorer will show exabyte values in *Online* connect mode and the available space within the synchronization cache location on your local disk in *Smart Synchronization* connect mode for the affected protocols.

:::{note}
Quota support can be [disabled](../../protocols/sftp/index.md#free-space-calculation-is-incorrect) for all protocols.
:::

Commit message:

Add page for _Integrated_ mode.

mountainduck/connect/index.md, after:

Connect mode
===

:::{toctree}
:hidden:
:titlesonly:
integrated
sync
online
:::

When connecting to a server, you can choose between *[Online](online.md)* and *[Smart Synchronization](sync.md)* connect
mode.

::::{tabs}
:::{tab} Integrated

The _Integrated_ connect mode synchronizes files and folders from a directory on the local disk with support from macOS and Windows.

:::
:::{tab} Online

In _Online_ connect mode, changes to a file are immediately uploaded and in sync when an application has finished saving a file.

:::
:::{tab} Smart Synchronization

In _Smart Synchronization_ connect mode, files are copied to a local cache for faster access prior synchronization with the server in the background.

:::
::::

## Feature Comparison

|                                          | **Online**                                                            | **Smart Synchronization**                                                     |
|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Offline Access**                       | –                                                                     | Save files in cache on disk for access with no server connectivity            |
| **Index Files**                          | –                                                                     | Index folder contents in cache on disk for access with no server connectivity |
| **Buffer file contents**                 | ︎Temporarily save opened files for faster access later                | Temporarily save opened files to copy to cache on disk                        |
| **Synchronization**                      | Changes are immediately uploaded                                      | Synchronize changes in the background                                         |
| **Transfer Progress**                    | Upload shown in progress window in _Finder.app_ or _Windows Explorer_ | Uploads shown in the status bar (macOS) or taskbar (Windows)                  |
| **[Recent Files](sync.md#recent-files)** | –                                                                     | Available in the status bar (macOS) or taskbar (Windows)                      |
| **[Lock Files](../locking.md)**          | ✔︎                                                                    | ✔                                                                             |
| **[Share Files](../share.md)**           | ✔                                                                     | ✔                                                                             |

## Quota Support

Mountain Duck displays the overall quota present on the server as available disk space on the mounted volume.

| Protocol                 | Support |
|--------------------------| :---: |
| [Local Disk](../../protocols/index.md#local-disk)  | ✅ |
| [SFTP](../../protocols/sftp/index.md#free-space-calculation-is-incorrect)  | ✅ |
| [FTP](../../protocols/ftp.md)                      | ❌ |
| [WebDAV](../../protocols/webdav/index.md)			 | ✅ |
| [Google Drive](../../protocols/googledrive.md)     | ✅ |
| [Google Cloud Storage](../../protocols/googlecloudstorage.md)  | ❌ |
| [Microsoft OneDrive](../../protocols/onedrive.md#quota)  | ✅ |
| [Microsoft Sharepoint](../../protocols/sharepoint.md#quota)  | ✅ |
| [Files.com](../../protocols/files.com.md)          | ❌ |
| [DRACOON](../../protocols/dracoon.md)              | ✅ |
| [Backblaze B2](../../protocols/b2.md)              | ❌ |
| [Box.com](../../protocols/box.md)                  | ❌ |
| [Dropbox](../../protocols/dropbox.md)              | ✅ |
| [Nextcloud](../../protocols/webdav/nextcloud.md)   | ✅ |
| [ownCloud](../../protocols/webdav/nextcloud.md)    | ✅ |
| [S3](../../protocols/s3/index.md)                  | ❌ |
| [SMB](../../protocols/smb.md)                      | ✅ |
| [Windows Azure ](../../protocols/azure.md)         | ❌ |
| [OpenStack Object Storage](../../protocols/openstack/index.md)  | ✅ |

:::{admonition} Limited Support
:class: attention

- **[Microsoft OneDrive](../../protocols/onedrive.md#quota)**: Quota is only supported when setting the *Path* in the bookmark configuration to a folder different from `/`.
- **[Microsoft SharePoint](../../protocols/sharepoint.md#quota)**: Quota is only supported when setting the *Path* in the bookmark configuration to a *Drives* folder in a SharePoint site folder.
:::

Some protocols do not report the available quota. Finder and Windows Explorer will show exabyte values in *Online* connect mode and the available space within the synchronization cache location on your local disk in *Smart Synchronization* connect mode for the affected protocols.

:::{note}
Quota support can be [disabled](../../protocols/sftp/index.md#free-space-calculation-is-incorrect) for all protocols.
:::
